Inferential statistics
======================

**Inferential statistics** is a branch of statistics that is used to
draw conclusions about a population based on a sample of data. It
involves making predictions and estimates about a population based on
statistical models and assumptions.

**Sampling** is the process of selecting a subset of a population to
study. The sample is intended to be representative of the population,
and the results of the study are then generalized to the population.

**Sampling distributions** are the probability distributions of the
sample statistics (e.g., the sample mean or sample standard deviation)
based on all possible samples of a given size from a population.
Sampling distributions are important because they allow us to make
predictions about the values of the sample statistics and to estimate
the precision of those predictions.

**Point estimation** is the process of estimating a population parameter
(e.g., the mean or standard deviation) based on a sample of data. Point
estimates are typically single values, such as the sample mean or
median.

**Interval estimation** is the process of estimating a population
parameter by constructing a confidence interval around a point estimate.
Confidence intervals are ranges of values that are likely to include the
true population parameter with a certain level of confidence (e.g.,
95%).

**Hypothesis testing** is the process of evaluating a statistical
hypothesis about a population parameter. It involves formulating a null
hypothesis (a statement of no effect or no relationship) and an
alternative hypothesis (a statement of an effect or relationship), and
then testing the null hypothesis using statistical methods. The goal of
hypothesis testing is to determine whether the data provide sufficient
evidence to reject the null hypothesis in favor of the alternative
hypothesis.
