Number Systems and Binary Arithmetic
====================================

Number systems and binary arithmetic are fundamental concepts in
computer science. A number system is a set of symbols and a set of rules
for representing numbers. There are several different number systems,
including the decimal number system (base 10), the binary number system
(base 2), and the hexadecimal number system (base 16).

The decimal number system is the most commonly used number system in
everyday life. It uses the digits 0 through 9 to represent numbers, and
the position of each digit determines its value. For example, the number
123 is made up of three digits: 1, 2, and 3. The value of each digit is
determined by its position in the number. The digit 1 is in the “ones”
place, the digit 2 is in the “tens” place, and the digit 3 is in the
“hundreds” place. The value of the number 123 is 1\ *100 + 2*\ 10 + 3*1,
or 123.

The binary number system is used extensively in computer science because
it is a simple and efficient way to represent and manipulate data. In
the binary number system, there are only two digits: 0 and 1. Each digit
is called a “bit” (short for “binary digit”). The value of each bit is
determined by its position in the number, just like in the decimal
number system. For example, the binary number 1101 is made up of four
bits: 1, 1, 0, and 1. The value of each bit is determined by its
position in the number. The leftmost bit is the “most significant” bit,
and the rightmost bit is the “least significant” bit. The value of the
number 1101 is 1\ *2^3 + 1*\ 2^2 + 0\ *2^1 + 1*\ 2^0, or 13.

Binary arithmetic is the arithmetic of binary numbers. It involves
performing basic arithmetic operations (such as addition, subtraction,
multiplication, and division) on binary numbers. Binary arithmetic is
performed using the same rules as decimal arithmetic, but with the added
constraint that there are only two digits (0 and 1). Some basic rules of
binary arithmetic are:

-  The sum of two 1s is equal to 0, with a carry of 1. For example, 1 +
   1 = 0, with a carry of 1.
-  The sum of a 1 and a 0 is equal to 1. For example, 1 + 0 = 1.
-  The sum of two 0s is equal to 0. For example, 0 + 0 = 0.

For example, consider the following binary addition:

.. code:: text

     1 1 0 1
   + 0 1 1 0
   ---------
     1 0 1 1

The sum of the two rightmost bits is 1 (1 + 0 = 1). The carry is 0. The
sum of the next two bits is 1 (1 + 1 + 0 = 0, with a carry of 1). The
carry is 1. The sum of the leftmost two bits is 0 (1 + 0 + 1 = 0, with a
carry of 1). The final carry is 1. The result is 11011.

Binary arithmetic is important in computer science because it is the
foundation of how computers perform calculations. All calculations
inside a computer are ultimately performed in binary, and the results
are stored in binary form.
